README.md, before:

Syncany [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/syncany/syncany.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/syncany/syncany) [![Coverage Status](https://api.syncany.org/badge/coverage.php)](https://syncany.org/reports/coverage/) [![Test Status](https://api.syncany.org/badge/tests.php)](https://syncany.org/reports/tests/) [![Lines of Code](https://api.syncany.org/badge/lines.php)](https://syncany.org/reports/cloc.xml)
=======
> **Important:** Please be aware that this is still **ALPHA code**! Do not use it
                 for important files.

Syncany is an open-source cloud storage and filesharing application. It allows
users to backup and share certain folders of their workstations using any kind
of storage, e.g. FTP, SFTP, WebDAV and Amazon S3.

While the basic idea is similar to Dropbox, Syncany is
open-source and additionally provides data encryption and more flexibility in
terms of storage type and provider:

- **Data encryption**: Syncany encrypts the files locally, so that any online
  storage can be used even for sensitive data.  
- **Any storage**: Syncany uses a plug-in based storage system. It can
  be used with any type of remote storage.


**Directly jump to ...**

- [Download and install Syncany](#download-and-install-syncany)
- [Sample usage: Try Syncany](#sample-usage-try-syncany)
- [Build and development instructions](#build-and-development-instructions)
- [Buy us a coffee](#buy-us-a-coffee)
- [Licensing, website and contact](#licensing-website-and-contact)


Download and install Syncany
----------------------------
You can download the current binary packages and installers from the [releases page](https://github.com/syncany/syncany/releases), or from the Syncany [download site](http://syncany.org/dist/). **Please be aware that this is still ALPHA code! Do not use it for important files.**

**Latest release:**   
Syncany 0.1.5-alpha, 12 May 2014, [[tar.gz]](https://syncany.org/dist/releases/syncany-0.1.5-alpha.tar.gz) [[zip]](https://syncany.org/dist/releases/syncany-0.1.5-alpha.zip) [[deb]](https://syncany.org/dist/releases/syncany_0.1.5.alpha_all.deb) [[exe]](https://syncany.org/dist/releases/syncany-0.1.5-alpha.exe)

Quick [install and usage instructions](https://github.com/syncany/syncany/wiki/CLI-quick-howto) can be found in the wiki.   
If you like it a bit more detailed, [there's lots more you can explore](https://github.com/syncany/syncany/wiki).


Sample usage: Try Syncany
-------------------------

Usage is pretty similar to a version control system. If you have used Git or
SVN, it should feel a lot alike.

**1. Choose and install a storage plugin**   
First choose the storage backend you'd like to use by doing `sy plugin list` and then `sy plugin install`. As of today, we've implemented plugins for [FTP](https://github.com/syncany/syncany-plugin-ftp), [SFTP](https://github.com/syncany/syncany-plugin-sftp), [WebDAV](https://github.com/syncany/syncany-plugin-webdav) and [Amazon S3](https://github.com/syncany/syncany-plugin-s3). For this example, we'll install the FTP plugin:
```
$ sy plugin install ftp
```

**2. Initialize a local directory**

```
$ sy init
Choose a storage plugin. Available plugins are: ftp, local, webdav, s3, sftp
Plugin: ftp

Connection details for FTP connection:
- Hostname: example.com
- Username: ftpuser
- Password (not displayed): 
- Path: repo-folder
- Port (optional, default is 21): 

Password (min. 10 chars): (user enters repo password)
Confirm: (user repeats repo password)

Repository created, and local folder initialized. To share the same repository
with others, you can share this link: syncany://storage/1/csbxyS6AA+bSK7OxbOxYQXyeouMeoU...
```
        
This sets up a new repository on the given remote storage and initializes the
local folder. You can now use `sy connect` to connect to this repository
from other clients.

**3. Add files and synchronize**

To let Syncany do everything automatically, simple use the `sy watch` command. 
This command will synchronize your local files. 

```
$ sy watch 
```

You can also manually trigger the upload of your local files or the download of remote changes:

```
$ sy up
$ sy down
```

**4. Connect other clients**   
To connect new clients to an existing repository, use the `sy connect` command.
This will set up your local folder to sync with the chosen remote repository.

```
$ sy connect syncany://storage/1/csbxyS6AA+bSK7OxbOxYQXyeouMeoU...

Password: (user enters repo password)

Repository connected, and local folder initialized.
You can now use the 'syncany' command to sync your files.
```

For a detailed demo, please refer to a [screencast](https://github.com/syncany/syncany/wiki/Documentation).


Build and development instructions
----------------------------------
Excited? Want to help? Or just build it yourself? For information about building, development, documentation, screencasts, diagrams and contributions, please check out **[the Syncany wiki page](https://github.com/syncany/syncany/wiki)**. It'll hopefully give you all the information you need!


Buy us a coffee
---------------
If you like what you see and you want to support us, you can buy us a coffee or a beer. There are maaanny ways to do so.

Break some hashes for us and [donate some Bitcoins](https://blockchain.info/address/1626wjrw3uWk9adyjCfYwafw4sQWujyjn8); or be a charmer and [flattr us](https://flattr.com/thing/290043/Syncany). If that's not for you, why not give us some change [with PayPal](http://www.syncany.org/donate.html)? Any contributions are much appreciated! 

 
Licensing, website and contact
------------------------------

Syncany is licensed under the GPLv2 open source license. It is actively developed by [Philipp C. Heckel](http://blog.philippheckel.com/), [Steffen Dangmann](https://www.xing.com/profile/Steffen_Dangmann) and [many others](https://github.com/syncany/syncany/graphs/contributors). We are always looking for people to join or help out. Feel free to contact us:

- [Syncany website](https://www.syncany.org/), still with screenshots of the old interface
- [Syncany wiki page](https://github.com/syncany/syncany/wiki), **most important resource, and always updated**
- [Mailing list](https://launchpad.net/~syncany-team), still on Launchpad (**active!**)
- [IRC channel #syncany on Freenode](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=syncany) (my nick is *binwiederhier*)
- [@syncany on Twitter](https://twitter.com/#!/syncany), somewhat quiet there, though ...

Commit message:

Squashed 'core/' changes from f3680ec..8970189
8970189 Timer/Thread naming
ddcbd80 Update CHANGELOG.md
735e7be Merge pull request #158 from gtrefs/master
cfbecb2 Issue #156: Added lib path segment to classpath
98f605d Update CHANGELOG.md
439763c Update CHANGELOG.md
629d5d9 Breaking up very long method into two long methods
19f7a5f Merge branch 'bugfix/identical-move' into develop
6317a21 Fixes #142
e40053d Merge branch 'develop' of github.com:syncany/syncany into develop
0c95fd4 Remove TODO
cf90a7a Choosing an appropriate file history to continue in a move
6401b31 Update CHANGELOG.md
11d1f4c Fix last license issue
1f3e67f Merge pull request #149 from acmiyaguchi/develop
1afa06b Resolves issue #147 in regards to conflicting licenses.
3a0ac60 Failing test
d5ad073 Added new target architecture diagram
96dcc2a Removed 'saucy' from Ubuntu releases (unsupported), added 'utopic'.
81cb4e3 Merge branch 'develop' of github.com:syncany/syncany into develop
c9b66ae Lots of JavaDoc
6debe72 Add tip4commit badge
ef80716 Merge branch 'develop' of github.com:syncany/syncany into develop
ad9f5f8 Fix restricted chars in XML issue, fixes #145
706933d Merge pull request #144 from ReAzem/patch-1
f3073f5 Changed badge to SVG
2d1d47d Merge branch 'develop' of https://github.com/syncany/syncany into develop
391e464 Bump PKGBUILD version and fix arch-version variable
8d76061 Update README.md
879759f Bump version
dba78af Merge branch 'release/0.1.6-alpha' into develop
ab2597f Merge branch 'release/0.1.6-alpha'
84b0888 Update readme with version
db09582 Update changelog for release date
d12e710 Enable non-strict daemon config file
22e47e0 Merge branch 'release/0.1.5-alpha'

git-subtree-dir: core
git-subtree-split: 8970189e143a650c332a793ca0b1a624a7a7b2db

README.md, after:

Syncany [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/syncany/syncany.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/syncany/syncany) [![Coverage Status](https://api.syncany.org/badge/coverage.php)](https://syncany.org/reports/coverage/) [![Test Status](https://api.syncany.org/badge/tests.php)](https://syncany.org/reports/tests/) [![Lines of Code](https://api.syncany.org/badge/lines.php)](https://syncany.org/reports/cloc.xml) [![tip for next commit](http://tip4commit.com/projects/822.svg)](http://tip4commit.com/github/syncany/syncany)
=======
> **Important:** Please be aware that this is still **ALPHA code**! Do not use it
                 for important files.

Syncany is an open-source cloud storage and filesharing application. It allows
users to backup and share certain folders of their workstations using any kind
of storage, e.g. FTP, SFTP, WebDAV and Amazon S3.

While the basic idea is similar to Dropbox, Syncany is
open-source and additionally provides data encryption and more flexibility in
terms of storage type and provider:

- **Data encryption**: Syncany encrypts the files locally, so that any online
  storage can be used even for sensitive data.  
- **Any storage**: Syncany uses a plug-in based storage system. It can
  be used with any type of remote storage.


**Directly jump to ...**

- [Download and install Syncany](#download-and-install-syncany)
- [Sample usage: Try Syncany](#sample-usage-try-syncany)
- [Build and development instructions](#build-and-development-instructions)
- [Buy us a coffee](#buy-us-a-coffee)
- [Licensing, website and contact](#licensing-website-and-contact)


Download and install Syncany
----------------------------
You can download the current binary packages and installers from the [releases page](https://github.com/syncany/syncany/releases), or from the Syncany [download site](http://syncany.org/dist/). **Please be aware that this is still ALPHA code! Do not use it for important files.**

**Latest release:**   
Syncany 0.1.6-alpha, 25 June 2014, [[tar.gz]](https://syncany.org/dist/releases/syncany-0.1.6-alpha.tar.gz) [[zip]](https://syncany.org/dist/releases/syncany-0.1.6-alpha.zip) [[deb]](https://syncany.org/dist/releases/syncany_0.1.6.alpha_all.deb) [[exe]](https://syncany.org/dist/releases/syncany-0.1.6-alpha.exe)   
For Ubuntu: Check out the [PPA for releases](https://launchpad.net/~syncany/+archive/release) and the [PPA for snapshots](https://launchpad.net/~syncany/+archive/snapshot).

Quick [install and usage instructions](https://github.com/syncany/syncany/wiki/CLI-quick-howto) can be found in the wiki.   
If you like it a bit more detailed, [there's lots more you can explore](https://github.com/syncany/syncany/wiki).


Sample usage: Try Syncany
-------------------------

Usage is pretty similar to a version control system. If you have used Git or
SVN, it should feel a lot alike.

**1. Choose and install a storage plugin**   
First choose the storage backend you'd like to use by doing `sy plugin list` and then `sy plugin install`. As of today, we've implemented plugins for [FTP](https://github.com/syncany/syncany-plugin-ftp), [SFTP](https://github.com/syncany/syncany-plugin-sftp), [WebDAV](https://github.com/syncany/syncany-plugin-webdav) and [Amazon S3](https://github.com/syncany/syncany-plugin-s3). For this example, we'll install the FTP plugin:
```
$ sy plugin install ftp
```

**2. Initialize a local directory**

```
$ sy init
Choose a storage plugin. Available plugins are: ftp, local, webdav, s3, sftp
Plugin: ftp

Connection details for FTP connection:
- Hostname: example.com
- Username: ftpuser
- Password (not displayed): 
- Path: repo-folder
- Port (optional, default is 21): 

Password (min. 10 chars): (user enters repo password)
Confirm: (user repeats repo password)

Repository created, and local folder initialized. To share the same repository
with others, you can share this link: syncany://storage/1/csbxyS6AA+bSK7OxbOxYQXyeouMeoU...
```
        
This sets up a new repository on the given remote storage and initializes the
local folder. You can now use `sy connect` to connect to this repository
from other clients.

**3. Add files and synchronize**

To let Syncany do everything automatically, simple use the `sy watch` command. 
This command will synchronize your local files. 

```
$ sy watch 
```

You can also manually trigger the upload of your local files or the download of remote changes:

```
$ sy up
$ sy down
```

**4. Connect other clients**   
To connect new clients to an existing repository, use the `sy connect` command.
This will set up your local folder to sync with the chosen remote repository.

```
$ sy connect syncany://storage/1/csbxyS6AA+bSK7OxbOxYQXyeouMeoU...

Password: (user enters repo password)

Repository connected, and local folder initialized.
You can now use the 'syncany' command to sync your files.
```

For a detailed demo, please refer to a [screencast](https://github.com/syncany/syncany/wiki/Documentation).


Build and development instructions
----------------------------------
Excited? Want to help? Or just build it yourself? For information about building, development, documentation, screencasts, diagrams and contributions, please check out **[the Syncany wiki page](https://github.com/syncany/syncany/wiki)**. It'll hopefully give you all the information you need!


Buy us a coffee
---------------
If you like what you see and you want to support us, you can buy us a coffee or a beer. There are maaanny ways to do so.

Break some hashes for us and [donate some Bitcoins](https://blockchain.info/address/1626wjrw3uWk9adyjCfYwafw4sQWujyjn8); or be a charmer and [flattr us](https://flattr.com/thing/290043/Syncany). If that's not for you, why not give us some change [with PayPal](http://www.syncany.org/donate.html)? Any contributions are much appreciated! 

 
Licensing, website and contact
------------------------------

Syncany is licensed under the GPLv3 open source license. It is actively developed by [Philipp C. Heckel](http://blog.philippheckel.com/) and [many others](https://github.com/syncany/syncany/graphs/contributors). We are always looking for people to join or help out. Feel free to contact us:

- [Syncany website](https://www.syncany.org/), still with screenshots of the old interface
- [Syncany wiki page](https://github.com/syncany/syncany/wiki), **most important resource, and always updated**
- [Mailing list](https://launchpad.net/~syncany-team), still on Launchpad (**active!**)
- [IRC channel #syncany on Freenode](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=syncany) (my nick is *binwiederhier*)
- [@syncany on Twitter](https://twitter.com/#!/syncany), somewhat quiet there, though ...
